Course : bash control structures 

1. Write a shell script to display "Good Morning" or "Good Afternoon" 
   or "Good Evening" 
        pgm `date` 
        pgm fri sep 3 13:32:07 IST 2004 

2. Write a shell script to take two filenames from the user.  Check whether 
   both files compares same or not. If compares same, then delete 
   the second one. (Use cmp command) 
   ask user to confirm before deletion 
   give error msg if the files are not found 

3. Write a shell script to take the username from the user. Check whether 
   the user is logged in or not. If he is logged in, find in how many 
   terminals he is logged in and also display all the terminal number. 
   (Use who and cut command) 

4. Write a shell script to display the command line arguments in 
   reverse order. 

5. Write a shell script to take year from the command line argument.  If the 
   argument is not given then, consider it as the current year. Also check 
   whether the year is leap or not. 

6. Write a shell script to take input from the user 
   if he is logged in, 
     send a message 
   else 
     send a mail 

7. Write a shell script to create n directories and each directory 
   Should have a file whose  content is same as the filename. 

8. Walk through the output of ls -l command. display the filename, 
   filetype and size. To get the file type, use file command. 

9. Given date, month and year as input, find the day of the week. 
   use cal and grep. 

10. Run the shell script in the background, which finds 
    a) when a file is created 
    b) when user logs in 

11. Find # of files in the current dierctory having $1 number of links. 

12. ./param a 'b c' d 
    Output of parameters should be 
    1: a 
    2: b c 
    3: d 

13. Given a filename, find the other filenames linked to the same inode 
    in the current directory 

14. Display 3 digit number in words 

15. Write a script Suffix that rename a file by adding a suffix. 
    Suffix abc .xyz 
    Output : abc.xyz 

16. Write a script Unsuffix to remove the suffix 
    Unsuffix abc.xyz .xyz 
    Output : abc 

17. Write a script called counttime that prints number of hours and 
    minutes that a user has been logged on. 
    (Use date and who commands.) 

18. Write a script, which takes the name of the user and prints the home 
    directory. 
    (Use /etc/passwd) 
